README.md, before:

# Hashpic

Hashpic creates an image from the *MD5* hash of your input.

Since _v0.2.0_ it is also possible to create an image from a *SHA-512* hash.

Since _v0.4.8_ it is also possible to create an image from a *SHAKE-256* hash with variable digest length of _4_, _9_, _16_, _25_, _36_, _64_, _100_, _144_, _225_ or _255_.

Since _v0.3.5_ it is also possible to create an image from a *SHA3-512* and a *BLAKE2b* hash.

Since _v0.4.0_ it is possible to create an image as *SVG*.

_v0.6.0_ brought a huge performance boost.

## Install

`pip3 install hashpic`

## Usage

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!'
```

This should create a file `output.png` in your current directory. 
The input `Hashpic rocks!` should create the following image:

![hashpic image](./docs/rocks.png)

## Piping from another program

All this commands should produce the same image as above.

```bash
printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | md5 | python3 -m hashpic --bypass

printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | python3 -m hashpic
```

## SVG Mode 🎉🎉🎉

Since _v0.4.0_ it is possible to create an image as *SVG*. The following command will create a file `output.svg` in your current directory. 

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg
```

![svg](./docs/rocks_on_svg.svg)

Since _v0.5.0_ it is possible to create circles instead of squares. But this is limited to the `SVG Mode`.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg --round
```

![rounded](./docs/rounded.svg)

Since _v0.7.0_ it is possible to create hexagons instead of squares. But this is limited to the `SVG Mode`. 
If you pass also the `--round` flag when using `--hexagon`, `--round` will be ignored.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg --hexagon
```

![rounded](./docs/hexagon_md5.svg)

Since _v0.5.2_ it is possible to add a background color to the SVG.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg --round --background '#000000'
```

## Console Mode

![console](./docs/console.png)

## Hashing a file

It is also possible to create an image from a hash of a file. Use the `--file` argument for that.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic --file README.md
```

## SHA-512 Mode

It is also possible to create an image from a *SHA-512* hash. All arguments for *MD5 Mode* are also available for *SHA512 Mode*.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic --sha512 'Hashpic rocks!'

printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | python3 -m hashpic --sha512
```

This commands should create the following image:

![sha512 image](./docs/rocks_on_sha512.png)

## SHAKE256 Mode

You can create an image from a *SHAKE256* hash with variable digest lengths. Valid lengths are _4_, _9_, _16_, _25_, _36_, _64_, _100_, _144_, _225_ and _255_. You must specify the length of the digest if you want to create an image from a *SHAKE256* hash.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 100 'Hashpic rocks!'
```

The command above should produce the following image:

![shake256](./docs/shake256/100.png)

### More SHAKE256 examples

<details>
  <summary>Click to see more examples.</summary>

  ### Digest Length of 4
  
  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 4 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/4.png)

  ### Digest Length of 9
  
  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 9 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/9.png)

  ### Digest Length of 16

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 16 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```
  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/16.png)

  ### Digest Length of 25

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 25 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/25.png)

  ### Digest Length of 36

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 36 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/36.png)

  ### Digest Length of 64

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 64 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/64.png)

  ### Digest Length of 100

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 100 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/100.png)

  ### Digest Length of 144

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 144 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/144.png)

  ### Digest Length of 225

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 225 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/225.png)

  ### Digest Length of 255

  It adds a `padding byte of 0xff` to the end of the hash to fit it into a `16x16 grid`. Please keep this in mind.

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 255 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/255.png)
</details>
<hr/>

## SHA3 Mode

It is possible to create an image from a *SHA3* hash. 

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --sha3
```

![sha3](./docs/rocks_on_sha3.png)

## BLAKE2b Mode

It is possible to create an image from a *BLAKE2b* hash. 

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --blake2b
```

![sha3](./docs/rocks_on_blake2b.png)

## Using with Docker

Since _v0.4.4_ there is a dockerized version available on [`ghcr.io`](https://github.com/0xflotus/hashpic/pkgs/container/hashpic). You can pull the image from there and use it e.g.:

```bash
docker run -it -v "$(pwd)":/app --rm ghcr.io/0xflotus/hashpic:0.6.2 deadbeef --bypass --shake256 --length 4
```

You can also pipe to docker:

```bash
printf 'ff0030ffe589b7a4e1320f12c4c8de73' | docker run -i --rm ghcr.io/0xflotus/hashpic:0.6.2 -c --shake256 --length 16 --bypass
```

## Examples

Bypassing a hash directly:

```bash
python3 -m hashpic ff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ffff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ffff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ffff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ff --bypass --sha512
```

This command will produce the following image:

![bypassed](./docs/bypassed.png)

So we can call the hash above the so called `chessboard hash`.

<hr>

You can also bypass a hash from another program:

```bash
printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | sha512sum | awk '{print $1}' | python3 -m hashpic --sha512 -c --bypass 
```

![bypassed from another program](./docs/bypassed_pipe.svg)

<hr>

With all this in mind you can also use hashpic to create an image not only from a hash but e.g. from the current time in hex:

```bash
python3 -c "import time; print(hex(int(time.time()))[2:])" | python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 4 --bypass
```

Or e.g. an IP address in hexadecimal form:

```bash
# localhost hex(127.0.0.1) == 7f000001
python3 -m hashpic 7f000001 --shake256 --length 4 --bypass

# e.g. an IPv6 address of Googles DNS server
printf 2001:4860:4860:0000:0000:0000:0000:8844 | tr -d ':' | python3 -m hashpic --bypass 
```

If you have installed [`h3`](https://h3geo.org/) you can transform a geo coordinate to an image. 
The example below uses the geo coordinates of the `Eiffel Tower in Paris, France`.

```bash
python3 -c "import h3; print(h3.geo_to_h3(48.8583230030819, 2.294450300083837, 15).zfill(18))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --shake256 --length 9
```

It is also possible to create an image from an `uuid`.

```bash
python3 -c "import uuid; print(str(uuid.uuid4()).replace('-', ''))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass -c
```

You can also create an image from any 64-bit integer.

```bash
printf 8724325378325383578 | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join([hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read()))[2:].zfill(64), 1).split('\n')]))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3
```

<details>
  <summary>Click to see more examples.</summary>

```bash
# compute the bypassed number
python3 -c "print(2**56-1)" | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join([hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read()))[2:].zfill(64),1).split('\n')]))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3

# bypass the binary directly
printf 0110100111001100001101001110011000111110011100110000111100111011 | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join([hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read(), 2))[2:].zfill(64),1).split('\n')]))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3

# map the colors 
printf 0110100111001100001101001110011000111110011100110000111100111011 | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join(map(lambda x: '00' if x == '01' else 'ff', [hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read(), 2))[2:].zfill(64),1).split('\n')])))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3
```

</details>

## Disclaimer

The color palette in [`data.py`](./hashpic/data.py) was influenced by the [`string-color`](https://gitlab.com/shindagger/string-color) library. 
Thanks for this!

Commit message:

docs: added information for dependencies

README.md, after:

# Hashpic

Hashpic creates an image from the *MD5* hash of your input.

Since _v0.2.0_ it is also possible to create an image from a *SHA-512* hash.

Since _v0.4.8_ it is also possible to create an image from a *SHAKE-256* hash with variable digest length of _4_, _9_, _16_, _25_, _36_, _64_, _100_, _144_, _225_ or _255_.

Since _v0.3.5_ it is also possible to create an image from a *SHA3-512* and a *BLAKE2b* hash.

Since _v0.4.0_ it is possible to create an image as *SVG*.

_v0.6.0_ brought a huge performance boost.

## Requirements

Make sure you have installed the [dependencies for Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#building-from-source)

On MacOS:

```sh
brew install libjpeg libtiff little-cms2 openjpeg webp
```

## Install

`pip3 install hashpic`

## Usage

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!'
```

This should create a file `output.png` in your current directory. 
The input `Hashpic rocks!` should create the following image:

![hashpic image](./docs/rocks.png)

## Piping from another program

All this commands should produce the same image as above.

```bash
printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | md5 | python3 -m hashpic --bypass

printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | python3 -m hashpic
```

## SVG Mode 🎉🎉🎉

Since _v0.4.0_ it is possible to create an image as *SVG*. The following command will create a file `output.svg` in your current directory. 

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg
```

![svg](./docs/rocks_on_svg.svg)

Since _v0.5.0_ it is possible to create circles instead of squares. But this is limited to the `SVG Mode`.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg --round
```

![rounded](./docs/rounded.svg)

Since _v0.7.0_ it is possible to create hexagons instead of squares. But this is limited to the `SVG Mode`. 
If you pass also the `--round` flag when using `--hexagon`, `--round` will be ignored.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg --hexagon
```

![rounded](./docs/hexagon_md5.svg)

Since _v0.5.2_ it is possible to add a background color to the SVG.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --svg --round --background '#000000'
```

## Console Mode

![console](./docs/console.png)

## Hashing a file

It is also possible to create an image from a hash of a file. Use the `--file` argument for that.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic --file README.md
```

## SHA-512 Mode

It is also possible to create an image from a *SHA-512* hash. All arguments for *MD5 Mode* are also available for *SHA512 Mode*.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic --sha512 'Hashpic rocks!'

printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | python3 -m hashpic --sha512
```

This commands should create the following image:

![sha512 image](./docs/rocks_on_sha512.png)

## SHAKE256 Mode

You can create an image from a *SHAKE256* hash with variable digest lengths. Valid lengths are _4_, _9_, _16_, _25_, _36_, _64_, _100_, _144_, _225_ and _255_. You must specify the length of the digest if you want to create an image from a *SHAKE256* hash.

```bash
python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 100 'Hashpic rocks!'
```

The command above should produce the following image:

![shake256](./docs/shake256/100.png)

### More SHAKE256 examples

<details>
  <summary>Click to see more examples.</summary>

  ### Digest Length of 4
  
  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 4 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/4.png)

  ### Digest Length of 9
  
  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 9 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/9.png)

  ### Digest Length of 16

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 16 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```
  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/16.png)

  ### Digest Length of 25

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 25 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/25.png)

  ### Digest Length of 36

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 36 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/36.png)

  ### Digest Length of 64

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 64 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/64.png)

  ### Digest Length of 100

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 100 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/100.png)

  ### Digest Length of 144

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 144 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/144.png)

  ### Digest Length of 225

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 225 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/225.png)

  ### Digest Length of 255

  It adds a `padding byte of 0xff` to the end of the hash to fit it into a `16x16 grid`. Please keep this in mind.

  ```bash
  python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 255 'Hashpic rocks!'
  ```

  ![shake256](./docs/shake256/255.png)
</details>
<hr/>

## SHA3 Mode

It is possible to create an image from a *SHA3* hash. 

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --sha3
```

![sha3](./docs/rocks_on_sha3.png)

## BLAKE2b Mode

It is possible to create an image from a *BLAKE2b* hash. 

```bash
python3 -m hashpic 'Hashpic rocks!' --blake2b
```

![sha3](./docs/rocks_on_blake2b.png)

## Using with Docker

Since _v0.4.4_ there is a dockerized version available on [`ghcr.io`](https://github.com/0xflotus/hashpic/pkgs/container/hashpic). You can pull the image from there and use it e.g.:

```bash
docker run -it -v "$(pwd)":/app --rm ghcr.io/0xflotus/hashpic:0.6.2 deadbeef --bypass --shake256 --length 4
```

You can also pipe to docker:

```bash
printf 'ff0030ffe589b7a4e1320f12c4c8de73' | docker run -i --rm ghcr.io/0xflotus/hashpic:0.6.2 -c --shake256 --length 16 --bypass
```

## Examples

Bypassing a hash directly:

```bash
python3 -m hashpic ff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ffff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ffff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ffff00ff00ff00ff0000ff00ff00ff00ff --bypass --sha512
```

This command will produce the following image:

![bypassed](./docs/bypassed.png)

So we can call the hash above the so called `chessboard hash`.

<hr>

You can also bypass a hash from another program:

```bash
printf 'Hashpic rocks!' | sha512sum | awk '{print $1}' | python3 -m hashpic --sha512 -c --bypass 
```

![bypassed from another program](./docs/bypassed_pipe.svg)

<hr>

With all this in mind you can also use hashpic to create an image not only from a hash but e.g. from the current time in hex:

```bash
python3 -c "import time; print(hex(int(time.time()))[2:])" | python3 -m hashpic --shake256 --length 4 --bypass
```

Or e.g. an IP address in hexadecimal form:

```bash
# localhost hex(127.0.0.1) == 7f000001
python3 -m hashpic 7f000001 --shake256 --length 4 --bypass

# e.g. an IPv6 address of Googles DNS server
printf 2001:4860:4860:0000:0000:0000:0000:8844 | tr -d ':' | python3 -m hashpic --bypass 
```

If you have installed [`h3`](https://h3geo.org/) you can transform a geo coordinate to an image. 
The example below uses the geo coordinates of the `Eiffel Tower in Paris, France`.

```bash
python3 -c "import h3; print(h3.geo_to_h3(48.8583230030819, 2.294450300083837, 15).zfill(18))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --shake256 --length 9
```

It is also possible to create an image from an `uuid`.

```bash
python3 -c "import uuid; print(str(uuid.uuid4()).replace('-', ''))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass -c
```

You can also create an image from any 64-bit integer.

```bash
printf 8724325378325383578 | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join([hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read()))[2:].zfill(64), 1).split('\n')]))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3
```

<details>
  <summary>Click to see more examples.</summary>

```bash
# compute the bypassed number
python3 -c "print(2**56-1)" | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join([hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read()))[2:].zfill(64),1).split('\n')]))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3

# bypass the binary directly
printf 0110100111001100001101001110011000111110011100110000111100111011 | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join([hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read(), 2))[2:].zfill(64),1).split('\n')]))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3

# map the colors 
printf 0110100111001100001101001110011000111110011100110000111100111011 | python3 -c "import sys, textwrap; print(''.join(map(lambda x: '00' if x == '01' else 'ff', [hex(int(bit))[2:].zfill(2) for bit in textwrap.fill(bin(int(sys.stdin.read(), 2))[2:].zfill(64),1).split('\n')])))" | python3 -m hashpic --bypass --svg --round --sha3
```

</details>

## Disclaimer

The color palette in [`data.py`](./hashpic/data.py) was influenced by the [`string-color`](https://gitlab.com/shindagger/string-color) library. 
Thanks for this!
